Article 


A new coronavirus associated with human 
respiratory disease in China 


https://doi.org/10.1038/s41586-020-2008-3 
Received: 7 January 2020 
Accepted: 28 January 2020 


Fan Wu 1,7 , Su Zhao 27 , Bin Yu 37 , Yan-Mei Chen 17 , Wen Wang 47 , Zhi-Gang Song 17 , Yi Hu 27 , 
Zhao-Wu Tao 2 , Jun-Hua Tian 3 , Yuan-Yuan Pei 1 , Ming-Li Yuan 2 , Yu-Ling Zhang 1 , Fa-Hui Dai 1 , 

Yi Liu 1 , Qi-Min Wang 1 , Jiao-Jiao Zheng 1 , Lin Xu 1 , Edward C. Holmes 15 & Yong-Zhen Zhang 14 6e 


Published online: 3 February 2020 
Open access 
€ Check for updates 


Emerging infectious diseases, such as severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) and 
Zika virus disease, present a major threat to public health 13 . Despite intense research 
efforts, how, when and where new diseases appear are still a source of considerable 
uncertainty. A severe respiratory disease was recently reported in Wuhan, Hubei 
province, China. As of 25January 2020, at least 1,975 cases had been reported since the 
first patient was hospitalized on 12 December 2019. Epidemiological investigations 
have suggested that the outbreak was associated with a seafood market in Wuhan. 
Here we study a single patient who was a worker at the market and who was admitted 
to the Central Hospital of Wuhan on 26 December 2019 while experiencing a severe 
respiratory syndrome that included fever, dizziness and a cough. Metagenomic RNA 
sequencing 4 of a sample of bronchoalveolar lavage fluid from the patient identified 
a new RNA virus strain from the family Coronaviridae, which is designated here 
'WH-Human Y coronavirus (and has also been referred to as '2019-nCoV'). 
Phylogenetic analysis of the complete viral genome (29,903 nucleotides) revealed 
that the virus was most closely related (89.1% nucleotide similarity) to a group of 
SARS-like coronaviruses (genus Betacoronavirus, subgenus Sarbecovirus) that had 
previously been found in bats in China 5 . This outbreak highlights the ongoing ability 
of viral spill-over from animals to cause severe disease in humans. 




Epidemiological investigations by the Wuhan Center for Disease 
Control and Prevention revealed that the patient worked at a local 
indoor seafood market. Notably, in addition to fish and shellfish, a 
variety of live wild animals-including hedgehogs, badgers, snakes 
and birds (turtledoves)-were available for sale in the market before 
the outbreak began, as well as animal carcasses and animal meat. No 
bats were available for sale. While the patient might have had contact 
with wild animals at the market, he recalled no exposure to live poultry. 

To investigate the possible aetiological agents associated with 
this disease, we collected bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) and 


Shanghai Public Health Clinical Center, Fudan University, Shanghai, China, department of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine, The Central Hospital of Wuhan, Tongji Medical College, 
Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Wuhan, China. 3 Wuhan Center for Disease Control and Prevention, Wuhan, China, department of Zoonosis, National Institute for 
Communicable Disease Control and Prevention, China Center for Disease Control and Prevention, Beijing, China. 5 Marie Bashir Institute for Infectious Diseases and Biosecurity, School of Life 
and Environmental Sciences and School of Medical Sciences, The University of Sydney, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia. 6 School of Public Health, Fudan University, Shanghai, China. 
7 These authors contributed equally: Fan Wu, Su Zhao, Bin Yu, Yan-Mei Chen, Wen Wang, Zhi-Gang Song, Yi Hu. s e-mail: zhangyongzhen@shphc.org.cn 


Nature | Vol579 I 12 March 2020 | 265 













Article 


Table 11 Clinical symptoms and patient data 


Characteristic 

Patient 

Age (years) 

41 

Sex 

Male 

Date of illness onset 

20 December 2019 

Date of admission 

26 December 2019 

Signs and symptoms 

Fever 

Yes 

Body temperature (°C) 

38.4 

Cough 

Yes 

Sputum production 

Yes 

Dizzy 

Yes 

Weakness 

Yes 

Chest tightness 

Yes 

Dyspnoea 

Yes 

Bacterial culture 

Negative 

Glucocorticoid therapy 

Yes 

Antibiotic therapy 

Cefoselis 

Antiviral therapy 

Oseltamivir 

Oxygen therapy 

Mechanical ventilation 











